All right, so let's clear out what we have here, and we'll start doing a little bit of a tour through
some of the key methods of big decimal.
OK, so now let's just try out some math on Big Decimal.
It has a lot of methods for doing pretty much all of the same types of math operations that you could
do with primitives and also with the math class.
So let's just walk through some of the key methods on it and try them out and see how they work.
To do so, we'll do.
We'll just do a system that out that print line and then we can just create a couple of big decimals
and do math operations on them.
So one way we can do this is to simply instantiate one or two big decimals in line here.
So, for example, I can just do a new big decimal like, so give it a number, so we'll do.
It doesn't even matter.
Zero point three one four, Whatever I just typed in a random number there.
All right.
Now to do the math with it, we can then change a method call.
So this new big decimal results in the creation of a new big decimal object, that object has the big
decimal methods on it.
So to access those methods, I can simply hit period and now call up the various methods available on
the class.
All right, so let's start off with additions so we can add.
And it takes a big decimal, as do most of the methods of the big decimal, so I can create another
big decimal as the input to this, and I know this can look a little unwieldy and this might not be
the way you'd really want to do any significant amount of math with big decimal.
But for right now, this is OK.
New Big Decimal and we'll add, I don't know, five point three to one.
OK, so let's run that and see see that it, that it works.
Now, I'm not going to verify that these answers are correct because I already know they're going to
be correct.
All right, there we go.
So we get five point six, three, five and then a bunch more.
All right.
So that's how you use add.
And while we're at it, let's just go ahead and do subtract.
All right.
So I just changed that method, and I don't change anything else.
And we'll run this.
OK.
Negative five and whatever.
OK, let's see what other methods do we have here?
We've got add, subtract, let's do a multiply.
OK, so now let's try dividing something, and I don't know, I'll just divide something random again.
So.
Divide.
All right, so let's run this.
OK, now we got something fun here.
We got what is called an exception, we've seen exceptions before in some of our programs.
These are errors, essentially.
Now this exception is saying that there is a non terminating decimal expansion.
No exact represent the decimal result.
What that's basically saying is that the answer to this division problem either has no ending or for
whatever reason, it can't be easily represented without us helping it out.
So what we have to do is specify how much precision we want in the answer to this division problem and
how to round off.
Because when we specify the amount of precision, what we're really basically saying is how many digits,
how many significant digits we want in the response, which means that when we get to wherever we're
going to cut off or our number of digits, we have to round.
And so we need to specify two big decimal what rounding strategy we want to use because there are actually
quite a number of different rounding strategies.
It doesn't just assume how we may want it to round the numbers for us.
We have to specify.
So we do this by creating something called a math context.
And so what I will do is create a new line here, and then I will create a new object of type math context,
and I will store this in a variable that I will call IMSI, and then I will create the instance of it
new math context.
And it has a constructor that takes I just did a command p four parameters, two inputs, the precision,
which is just an integer, and then the rounding mode or the strategy for rounding.
So let's try a precision of five to begin with.
And then a comma space.
And then if you just type the letter R here, the ADP knows that you're referring to a rounding mode
because that's the only data type that can be accepted as the second parameter of this constructor.
And then you can pick a rounding mode and you can go read the documentation on what all of these do.
I'm not going to go through all of them.
I'm going to choose.
Let's see.
How about yeah, I guess I'll choose the first one that I have here half up.
All right.
So I put a semicolon there, and now I've created a math context.
So now in the divide method, here there is another version.
Let me give myself a little little room.
Oops.
Sorry.
Let me give myself a little room here.
There we go.
So on the divide method, there's another version of the Divide method, which takes two and puts the
big decimal that you want to use there.
And then the math context.
So I and I know that because I'm a little bit familiar with the divide method, but if you didn't know
that you could put your period here right before the divide and then hit control space, then arrow
over the word divide.
And now we're seeing all the different versions of the divide method.
So currently we're using this first one that only takes one parameter.
The divisor, but there's another one that takes the divisor and then a math context, and that's the
one that we want.
There's also another one here where if you didn't want to go through the bother of creating this math
context, you could just specify things like the scale and rounding mode all in line.
So you have a lot of options here.
All right.
So anyway, we're going to use this second one.
Now, I'm not going to actually pick that.
I'm just going to move my cursor right there at the end of the creation of the new Big Decimal.
Put a comma space and then refer to my math context that I've already created, right?
Like that.
All right.
So now let's run this and see.
There we go.
And no more error.
So we just had to tell it.
Basically, the decimal was saying, Hey, this number is like crazy long.
It may not even have any ending, so you need to tell me, how do you want me to handle this?
And so we just told it, well, cut it off somewhere.
And notice that because we set the precision to five, we are getting one two three four five meaningful
digits.
They're not including these the zeros, right?
So let's see if we were to specify precision of seven.
Let's see what we get there.
All right.
So one two three four five six seven, so that should look kind of obvious what what the precision is
doing for us, right?
So yeah, keep that in mind that if you do use the divide method and there are a few other methods that
where you could get this, but divide is a big one where you may see that that kind of exception.
If you didn't automatically think to specify a math context or at least specify the precision and the
rounding mode, and you get that exception now, you know what to do about it.
You'll just need to specify the precision and rounding mode somehow.
All right, let's move on to another method.
Let's take a look at the square root method.
And this should be pretty straightforward.
Let's put a good number in here that we know the square root of like forty nine.
Now notice this method takes an input and it wants a math context.
And so we've already got this one up here on Line nine, so let's just use that will pass that in just
like so and then let's run this.
So we should get back to seven.
There we go.
And let's try something crazy.
I don't even know like point zero five four seven nine eight.
Let's see what happens with this one.
Ooh, look at that.
Cool.
One two three four zero eight nine seven OK, so there's a square root function or method.
All right, let's try another one.
Oh, OK, so here's a max function.
So there was a max function or method on the math class.
This is similar, except the math classes.
Max function took two numbers and then it just returned.
Whichever one was greater because these methods exist on an instance of a big decimal.
This max method only takes one number because the other number is the number that you're using here.
Let's just see it so I can show you.
So I can be a little more clear of what I mean here.
So we'll get rid of this.
All right.
So let's say we've got a big decimal with the number of seven and then this math function or method
takes another big decimal.
So we'll create another big decimal and we'll pass in 13, right?
So this is how you use this.
And so it's going to compare seven and 13.
But the method is actually part of the big decimal for seven.
So not a big deal.
We'll go ahead and run this, OK.
And so you get back to the bigger one, which is 13.
All right.
And then of course, there's a men and that does the opposite.
So we'll run this.
And there you go.
You get back.
Seven.
All right, let's see what else we've got here.
You can get the absolute value.
Now, this one does not take an input, so let's pass in negative seven.
And we should get back a positive seven or also known as just seven.
There we go.
There's seven.
All right.
So that's the absolute value method.
OK.
If you remember, we learned about the modulo operator, which simply returns the remainder of a division
problem.
There is an equivalent to that with big decimal, and it is the remainder method right here.
So we will supply the remainder method with another big decimal that will represent a divisor.
So let's say we wanted to divide, I don't know, 13 divided by and then we'll pass in a new big decimal
13 divided by eight.
So this method will return the remainder and that remainder will will be returned as a big decimal,
by the way.
All right.
So let's run this.
OK, so we get back of five so we can even use this the same way that we did when we were seeing how
the modulo worked.
So I think we did something like we did a sequence of of integers like one through 10 or something like
that.
And then we had the divisor be like two or something.
So let's do the equivalent of that.
But with big decimal.
All right.
So we'll change this to two three, four five.
And let's run this and we should see some kind of toggling on and off zero one type behavior.
There we go one zero one zero one.
So that just goes to show that we can do the same thing with big decimal.
All right.
And so I think that's going to wrap up the small tour of some of the more common typical math functions
and methods on Big Decimal.
So next up, though, we will take a look at some of the other methods on Big Decimal that you will
likely need to know about and use from time to time.
So we'll see in the next one.